okay let's bring in Omar ASA he's a
professor of security and Military
studies at the Doha Institute for
Graduate Studies Omar thanks for joining
us so of course Israel has launched
these two major assaults on the Alm
magazi Alber refugee camps knowing full
well how densely packed these area areas
are with civilians and we all know the
consequences of what happens when these
areas are targeted nevertheless Israel's
pushing ahead with its operation
whatever it means so you're absolutely
right it's they are very dense area
we're talking now about areas that
they're not as dense as Rafa where but
they are still very dense over 10,000 uh
person in per square kilometer uh uh
these are the estimates now because of
the they're changing because of the
movement uh but also they are operating
there with the seven armored Brigade so
we're talking here not about fighting
with light weapons and light infantry
but with tanks uh so the seventh armored
entered uh the B uh camp and this is a
reinforced Brigade so it's not a three
Battalion Brigade it's now about five
battalions are involved in it uh two of
them are special for are paratroopers
and the rest are are armored and
mechanized so we're seeing heavy metal
rolling in in these very dense densely
populated areas uh but at the same time
these areas were cleared multiple times
before and the Israeli Army multiple
times said that they cleared uh the the
B uh Apparently one of two things either
the the strategy is not functioning so
it is not working they did not um cut
the lines of communications between the
Hamas and other military formations and
therefore these areas after they leave
they come back or um they uh they have
bad Intelligence on what's going on
there uh or they are attempting to
create some uh like we saw in narim and
in RAF um strong points sort of a
reoccupation of particular parts and
staying there to create uh strong points
and do these raids every now and then
was going to be my next question it's
one thing to launch full assaults on
these refugee camps it is another thing
to hold these positions so they are
holding now at least uh along the Gaza
strips at least three or or four
actually areas so they are holding the
buffer zone uh they're holding the narim
corridor which divides Gaza into North
and and South this is the the carali the
second uh bade um The Reserve brigades
basically holding this line and then
they're holding what I'm seeing from
Rafa along the Philadelphia Corridor
between Rafa and Sinai uh they are
creating new strong points so from based
on the the images they are creating at
least two of them uh and they are manned
by uh some of the uh brigades available
they have about six brigades now in Rafa
so that's that's a when you say a
brigade Brigade how many troops are we
talking about that that's an issue now
because a NATO Brigade would be between
3,000 to 5,000 men uh but because they
have a crisis in Manpower and and in
terms of uh Mob izing of the reserves
and and and so on uh their brigades seem
to be sometimes less than that because
they're not full strength brigades so
not the all the battalions there so
we're talking anywhere between a
thousand to 3,000 sometimes more
sometimes less the seventh armored now
it's a reinforced Brigade so they have
like five battalions with within it so
the the the range very simply we can put
it between roughly 1500 to all the way
to 5,000 depends on are they at full
strength all the battalions are there uh
fully men or not let me ask you about
the timing of all of this because the
backdrop of course is all of this
ambiguity about whether there is a
proposal that will be signed up to or
whether it will be
rejected is the Israeli Army right now
using this ambiguity to complete some
sort of strategic
uh option here or proposal on the ground
I don't think there's a strategic option
the Prime Minister Netanyahu made it
very clear that he's not interested in a
permanent ceasefire and therefore the
you know why why would they give the
captives the the in terms of Hamas uh
but what we're seeing is holding
specific territory U like the narim
corridor uh like the the the strong
points they're doing along the salahadin
road which divides uh the Gaza Strip
into East and West as well so holding
these strong points to disrupt the
mobility in Gaza including the mobility
of the civilians and from there they
create like a sort of bases or camps uh
or staging areas to attack based on
intelligence so if they see a movement
or a unit is getting reconstituted from
the Hamas side they would launch a air
strikes artillery strikes and sometimes
raid with with Brigade level uh
operations so that that this is not a
strategy this is just an operational
plan regardless of the humanitarian
costs because now we're seeing actually
the the the humanitarian uh costs the
civilian losses in Rafa since the ra
operation has doubled has doubled
compared to previous months uh so which
tells you that all all these operations
in this very dense areas just kill a lot
of civilians without achieving the
objectives even that of the uh current
government and of course in the meantime
it's civilians that are hemmed in
bearing the consequences of this
continued violence Omar asaw many
thanks make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler